DOC-1050: RedisJSON Quick Start Rewrite (#1908)
RedisLabs/redislabs-docs: content/modules/redisjson/redisjson-quickstart.md

categories: ["Modules"]
aliases: /rs/getting-started/creating-database/redisjson-quick-start/
---

## Prerequisites

For this quick start tutorial, you need:

- A Redis database with the RedisJSON module enabled. You can use either:
    - A [Redis Cloud]({{<relref "/modules/modules-quickstart.md">}}) database

    - A [Redis Enterprise Software]({{<relref "/modules/install/add-module-to-database">}}) database

- redis-cli command line tool

- [redis-py](https://github.com/redis/redis-py) client library v4.0.0 or greater

## RedisJSON with redis-cli

> The `redis-cli` command line tool comes packaged with Redis. You can use it to connect to your Redis database and test the following RedisJSON commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`redis-cli`](https://redis.io/docs/manual/cli/) command line tool comes packaged with Redis. You can use it to connect to your Redis database and test the following RedisJSON commands.
```

> The `redis-cli` command line tool comes packaged with Redis. You can use it to connect to your Redis database and test the following RedisJSON commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [`redis-cli`](https://redis.io/docs/manual/cli/) command-line tool is part of the Redis installation. You can use it to connect to your Redis database and test RedisJSON commands.
```

                }
            ]
        },
        "hardware-store": {
            "items": [
                {
                    "name": "hammers",
                    "count": 1
                }
            ]
        },
        "clothing-store": {
            "items": [
                {
                    "name": "socks",
                    "count": 4
                }
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

You can also use `JSON.GET` to read a single entity or multiple entities with the same name from the JSON object.

```sh
127.0.0.1:12543> JSON.GET shopping-list .grocery-store INDENT "\t" NEWLINE "\n"    
{
    "items":[
        {
            "name":"apples",
            "count":5
        },
        {
            "name":"pears",
            "count":2
        }
    ]
}
127.0.0.1:12543> JSON.GET shopping-list $..items INDENT "\t" NEWLINE "\n"
[
    [
        {
            "name":"apples",
            "count":5
        },
        {
            "name":"pears",
            "count":2
        }
    ],
    [
        {
            "name":"hammers",
            "count":1
        }
    ],
    [
        {
            "name":"socks",
            "count":4
        }
    ]
]
```

> Use `JSON.TYPE` to check the JSON type of the key, or an entity inside the key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `JSON.TYPE` to check the JSON type of the key or an entity inside the key.
```

```sh
127.0.0.1:12543> JSON.TYPE shopping-list
object
127.0.0.1:12543> JSON.TYPE shopping-list .stores.grocery-store.items
array
127.0.0.1:12543> JSON.TYPE shopping-list .stores.grocery-store.items[0].name
string
```

### Delete info from a JSON document

Use `JSON.DEL` to delete parts of the JSON document.

```sh
127.0.0.1:12543> JSON.DEL shopping-list .stores.clothing-store
1
127.0.0.1:12543> JSON.DEL shopping-list .stores.grocery-store.items[1]
1
127.0.0.1:12543> JSON.GET shopping-list INDENT "\t" NEWLINE "\n"
{
    "list-date":"05/05/2022",
    "stores":{
        "grocery-store":{
            "items":[
                {
                    "name":"apples",
                    "count":5
                }
            ]
        },
        "hardware-store":{
            "items":[
                {
                    "name":"hammers",
                    "count":1
                }
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

Use `JSON.DEL` with no specified path to delete the key.

```sh
127.0.0.1:12543> JSON.DEL shopping-list
1
127.0.0.1:12543> EXISTS shopping-list
0
```

## RedisJSON with Python

> If you want to use RediSearch within an application, you can use one of these [client libraries](https://redis.io/docs/stack/json/clients/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use RedisJSON within an application, you can use one of these [client libraries](https://redis.io/docs/stack/json/clients/).
```

> If you want to use RediSearch within an application, you can use one of these [client libraries](https://redis.io/docs/stack/json/clients/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to use RedisJSON within an application, you can use one of the [client libraries](https://redis.io/docs/stack/json/clients/).
```

The following example uses the Redis Python client library [redis-py](https://github.com/redis/redis-py), which supports RedisJSON commands as of v4.0.0.

This Python code creates a JSON document in Redis, adds and updates information to the JSON document, and then deletes the document.

``` python
import redis
import json

# Connect to a database
r = redis.Redis(host="<endpoint>", port="<port>",
    password="<password>")

# Create a JSON document

> print("Creating Shopping list...")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
print("Creating shopping list...")
```

list_obj = {
    'list-date': '05/05/2022'
}

r.json().set('shopping-list:py', '.', list_obj)
reply = r.json().get('shopping-list:py', '.')
print(json.dumps(reply, indent=4) + "\n")

> # Adding info to the JSON document

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Add info to the JSON document
```

print("Adding stores and starting items...")
stores_obj = {
    "grocery-store" : {
        "items" : [ { "name": "apples", "count": 5 } ]
    },
    "hardware-store" : {
        "items": [ { "name": "hammers", "count": 1 } ]
    },
    "clothing-store" : {
        "items": [ { "name": "socks", "count": 2 } ]
    }
}

r.json().set('shopping-list:py', '.stores', stores_obj)
reply = r.json().get('shopping-list:py', '.')
print(json.dumps(reply, indent=4) + "\n")

> # Adding new items to the list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Add new items to the list
```

print("Adding pears...")
pears_obj = {
    "name" : "pears",
    "count" : 3
}

r.json().arrappend('shopping-list:py', '.stores.grocery-store.items',
                    pears_obj)
reply = r.json().get('shopping-list:py', '.')
print(json.dumps(reply, indent=4) + "\n")

> # Incrementing numerical values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Increment item counts
```

print("Changing item counts...")
r.json().numincrby('shopping-list:py',
                    '.stores.clothing-store.items[0].count', 2)
r.json().numincrby('shopping-list:py',
                    '.stores.grocery-store.items[1].count', -1)
reply = r.json().get('shopping-list:py', '.')
print(json.dumps(reply, indent=4) + "\n")

> # Getting all items no matter which heading they're under

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Get all items no matter which heading they're under
```

print("Getting all items...")
reply = r.json().get('shopping-list:py', '$..items')
print(json.dumps(reply, indent=4) + "\n")

> # Deleting portions of the document

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Delete specific parts of the document
```

print("Deleting clothing store and pears...")
r.json().delete('shopping-list:py', '.stores.clothing-store')
r.json().delete('shopping-list:py', '.stores.grocery-store.items[1]')
reply = r.json().get('shopping-list:py', '.')
print(json.dumps(reply, indent=4) + "\n")

> # Deleting the key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Delete the JSON document key
```

print("Deleting shopping-list:py key...")
r.json().delete('shopping-list:py')
print("Done!")
```

Example output:
```sh
$ python3 quick_start.py

> Creating Shopping list...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating shopping list...
```
